---
layout: single
title:  "Intro"
date:   2016-10-17 10:34:01
categories: Outreachy
summary: Intro
image: /assets/article_images/2016-10-17-Intro/nodejs_white.png
tags:
- Node.js
- V8
---

# Outreachy & Node.js
[Outreachy](https://wiki.gnome.org/Outreachy) is an amazing initiative
providing underrepresented communities in tech an opportunity
to get involved in contributing to FOSS projects. Participating organizations
vary with each call. It is a unique opportunity to contribute to organizations like Mozilla,
Wikimedia, Fedora, Linux kernel, GNOME, amongst many others.

The application process is highly collaborative and its main component are
the initial contributions to the project of choice, with the help of the mentor
and the community. I had a blast during the application process and
highly recommend it to those who are curious to understand how important projects
and software are designed, created and maintained; and who want to seriously up
the ante when it comes to their programming skills.

I learned about the Outreachy while attending the awesome NYC-based [Recurse Center](https://www.recurse.com/) this spring (another 'I cannot recommend it
highly enough' choice). I'm beyond thrilled to have become the Outreachy grantee in the December 2016 - March 2017 round working on Node.js. Being both Javascript and C++ fan
with deep interest in complex systems, Node.js was a natural choice for me.
These pages were set up to document the learnings and the contribution process.

"Improve the vm module in Node.js core" is the project I am working on.
Node.js uses the V8 (Node's JS engine), which has been updated with a new API,
scheduled to land in the Node.js core in the very near future. It will allow for replacing
current deprecated functions and workaround solutions in Node.js core.
Vm is a sandboxed V8 instance, which allows to contextify processes run in Node.js.
There are a number of opened issues (and probably some more hidden ones),
which can be solved by adopting the changes in the new V8 API.

That's the outline- looking forward to seeing it evolve and getting implemented.
